In this episode of Detail, I'm really looking at opportunities to put pressure on the Cleveland
defense by pushing hard in transition.
Got to slow that one down. I know that in transition,
Brian is always going to let the ball handler go by.
He's always going to let you go by him.
All right, he's always going to do this. He's going to slow down, he's going to let you go
by him, and then he's going to catch you at the run.
Right. So that means in this situation,
we have to recognize this. This is Terry over here. This is me with the ball,
Brian's here to make this penetration. Terry's got to know that Brian's going to allow this
to happen. You know, which he wants the opportunity to contest late at the run.
So that means when this happens, I need to slide all the way down here in the corner.
And now, you know, Terry slides all the way down in the corner, and now I can make that pass to Terry
down in the corner for a shot. You know, Cleveland, it's a massive emphasis for them
to get back on defense, right? So this penetration here really needs to be a bait,
because now I can pull everybody in, right? I have four defensive players here
concerned about the action that's taking place. I have Horford trailing, you know,
Tristan's doing a great job. They'll stand between me and Horford and plugging up that line.
JR is doing a great job running and getting on the line to tatum.
LeBron is setting himself up to get a chase down block. Terry's got to make sure he's
moving actively down here in the corner, and I got to be the one that's the bait, right?
So I got to bait this drive here, and now I can find Terry here in the corner for three.
You know, on the road, I have to make sure that we're all running together,
right? My speed here, here we go in the attack. You know, Cleveland's going to make a concerted
effort to get back in transition, right? So they're going to build a wall.
They're going to make sure everybody's back in the paint. They don't want to give us any
fast break opportunities. Therefore, on this thrust, I got to make sure I have
all my teammates are down with me in shooting positions. So when I collapse the defense,
they're in position to shoot that ball or make a play for someone else.
The guy get everybody moving, everybody running.
If I can push hard in transition, put a lot of pressure on the defense that collapses
the defense. Now, once the defense collapses, then it becomes my responsibility to find
shooters on a perimeter. My ability to carry the thrust in transition, make or miss,
puts a lot of pressure on that Cleveland defense, then it becomes my responsibility
once I get in the paint to make the proper reads. That's something I'd certainly look to
take advantage of. Use our youth, our athleticism, to push hard at Cleveland in transition,
especially on the road. For more analysis, go to detail on ESPN Plus.